'\" t
.\"     Title: dlt-logstorage-ctrl
.\"    Author: [see the "AUTHOR" section]
.\"      Date: 27/05/2015
.\"    Manual: \ \&
.\"    Source: \ \&
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "DLT\-LOGSTORAGE\-CTRL" "1" "27/05/2015" "\ \&" "\ \&"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAME"
dlt-logstorage-ctrl \- Trigger DLT Daemon to start/stop using an offline logstorage device
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
\fBdlt\-logstorage\-ctrl\fR [\-h] [\-c ctype] [\-d dev] [\-e ecu] [\-t timeout]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Send a trigger to DLT Daemon to connect/disconnect a certain offline logstorage device.\&
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB\-h\fR
.RS 4
Display a short help text\&.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-c\fR
.RS 4
Specify connection type: connect = 1, disconnect = 0\&.
.RE
.PP
\fB\-d\fR
.RS 4
Specify the device [1 .. DLT_OFFLINE_LOGSTORAGE_MAX_DEVICES]. DLT_OFFLINE_LOGSTORAGE_MAX_DEVICES is defined in dlt_offline_logstorage.h\&
.RE
.PP
\fB\-e\fR
.RS 4
Specify the ECU ID. Default is: ECU1.\&
.RE
.PP
\fB\-t\fR
.RS 4
Specify connection timeout. Default is 10s.\&
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Activate the offline logstorage device mounted on /tmp/dltlogs/dltlogsdev1.
.RS 4

\fBdlt\-logstorage\-ctrl \-c 1 \-d 1\fR
.RE
.PP
Deactivate the offline logstorage device mounted on /tmp/dltlogs/dltlogsdev2
.RS 4

\fBdlt\-logstorage\-ctrl \-c 0 \-d 2\fR
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
Non zero is returned in case of failure. On success, 0 is returned.\&
.SH "AUTHOR"
.sp
Christoph Lipka (clipka (at) jp\&.adit\-jv\&.com)
Syed Hameed (shameed (at) jp\&.adit\-jv\&.com)
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
Main web site: http://projects\&.genivi\&.org/diagnostic\-log\-trace Mailinglist: https://lists\&.genivi\&.org/mailman/listinfo/genivi\-diagnostic\-log\-and\-trace
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
dlt\-daemon(1)
