.TH dlt-system.conf 5  "March 2, 2012" "version 2.5.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dlt-system.conf \- DLT system process configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The DLT system logging process is the central application, which logs
system information from the platform. It provides the features
filetransfer, syslog adapater, logging of any kind of files and
procfilesystem logger. The individual features can be enabled and
disabled in the configuration file. 
.PP
The configuration file dlt-system.conf allows to configure the different
runtime behaviour of dlt-system. The configuration file is loaded
during startup of dlt-system.
.PP
dlt-system loads by default the configuration file /etc/dlt-system.conf.
An alternative configuration file can be loaded with the option \-c.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B ApplicationId
The application Id used for the dlt-system process.
.IP
Default: SYS
.SH SYSLOG ADAPTER OPTIONS
.TP
.B SyslogEnable
If this option is set to 1, the syslog adapter feature is enabled.
.IP
Default: 0.
.TP
.B SyslogContextId
This value defines context id of the syslog adapter. 
.IP
Default: SYSL
.TP
.B SyslogPort
This value defines the UDP port opened for receiving log messages from
syslog.
.IP
Default: 47111
.SH FILETRANSFER OPTIONS
.TP
.B FiletransferEnable
If this option is set to 1, the filetransfer feature is enabled.
.IP
Default: 0.
.TP
.B FiletransferDirectory1
This is path to the first directory, which is scanned for new files to
be transfered. If new files are found, these files are transfered to the
client and then deleted after a configurable time.
.IP
Default: /tmp/filetransfer
.TP
.B FiletransferDirectory2
This is path to the second directory, which is scanned for new files to
be transfered. If new files are found, these files are transfered to the
client and then deleted after a configurable time.
.IP
Default: /tmp/filetransfer2
.TP
.B SyslogContextId
This value defines context id of the syslog adapter. 
.IP
Default: SYSL
.TP
.B FiletransferTimeStartup
This value defines the amount of time in seconds after start of
dlt-system, when dlt-system starts to send the first file.
.IP
Default: 30
.TP
.B FiletransferTimeDelay
This value defines the amount of time after which a sent file is deleted
and the next file is strated to be transmitted.
.IP
Default: 10
.TP
.B FiletransferTimeoutBetweenLogs
This value defines the amount of time to wait between two file transfer 
logs of a single file.
.IP
Default: 10
.SH LOG FILES OPTIONS
.TP
.B LogFileEnable
If this option is set to 1, the log files feature is enabled.
.IP
Default: 0.
.TP
.B LogFileFilename
This value sets the full filename path to the file, which should be logged. 
.TP
.B LogFileMode
This value the defines in which operation mode this file is logged.
Possible values are: 0 = off, 1 = startup only, 2 = regular.
In mode 1 the file is only logged once when dlt-system is started.
In mode 2 the file is logged regularly every time LogFileTimeDelay timer
elapses.
.TP
.B LogFileTimeDelay
This value is used in mode 3 and defines the number of seconds, after
which the defined file is logged.
.TP
.B LogFileContextId
This value defines the context id, which is used for logging the file.
.SH LOG PROCESSES OPTIONS
.TP
.B LogProcessesEnable
If this option is set to 1, the log processes feature is enabled.
.IP
Default: 0.
.TP
.B LogProcessesContextId
This value defines the context id, which is used for logging processes
files.
.TP
.B LogProcessName
This value defines the name of the process to be logged, as used in the
file stat of each process. 
If the value is defined as *, all processes are logged.
.TP
.B LogProcessFilename
This value sets the relative filename path to the file, which should be
logged. The path is relative to the procfilesystem folder of the
process. 
.TP
.B LogProcessMode
This value the defines in which operation mode this process file is
logged. Possible values are: 0 = off, 1 = startup only, 2 = regular.
In mode 1 the file is only logged once when dlt-system is started.
In mode 2 the file is logged regularly every time LogFileTimeDelay timer
elapses.
.TP
.B LogProcessTimeDelay
This value is used in mode 3 and defines the number of seconds, after
which the defined procfilesystem file is logged.
.SH AUTHOR
Alexander Wenzel (alexander.aw.wenzel (at) bmw.de)
.SH SEE ALSO
dlt-system(1)
