doc/dlt-qnx-system.md, before:

# dlt-qnx-system

QNX specific logging features of dlt are managed by the ```dlt-qnx-system``` process.
It currently contains the message forwarder from slogger2 to DLT.

The application listens to the system logs on QNX (slogger2) and sends them to
DLT. The prerequisite is that dlt-daemon is already started and running.
dlt-qnx-system loads by default the configuration file ```/etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf```.

> In order to catch all logs via slog2, the syslog needs to forward to slogger2 in [syslog.conf](http://www.qnx.com/developers/docs/7.0.0/index.html#com.qnx.doc.neutrino.utilities/topic/s/syslog.conf.html).

To change the log level, use application ID and context ID set in configuration
file. ```DLT_INITIAL_LOG_LEVEL``` can be set on startup phase, or control
message can be sent from DLT client (e.g. dlt-control, DLT Viewer) at runtime.
Refer to [dlt_for_developers.md](dlt_for_developers.md) for more detail.


## Usage

```bash
dlt-qnx-system [-h] [-d] [-c FILENAME]
```

-h

:   Display a short help text.

-d

:   Daemonize. Detach from Terminal and run in background.

-c

:   Load an alternative configuration file. By default the configuration file
    */etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf* is loaded.


Non zero is returned in case of failure.


## Configuration

By default, the configuration is loaded from */etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf*. It
contains a few basic options:

- *ApplicationId*: this QNX system log forwarder will have this application ID
  and appear on DLT client. Default value is *QSYM*.
- *ApplicationContextID*: the context ID of the above application to appear on
  DLT client. Default value is *QSYC*.
- *QnxSlogger2Enable*: when the value is 1 (by default), the QNX slogger2
  adapter which sends slogger2 to DLT will be started. Otherwise if the value
  if 0, it won't be started.
- *QnxSlogger2ContextId*: this will set the context ID of the QNX slogger2
  adapter. Default value is *QSLA*.
- *QnxSlogger2UseOriginalTimestamp*: when the value is 1 (by default), slogger2
  event timestamps will be used as DLT timestamps.



## Slogger2 adapter

The slogger2 adapter that can be enabled in dlt-qnx-system attaches to slogger2 and converts the messages to dlt messages.


### Log level mapping

As the severity levels on QNX system log are different from DLT Log Level, the below table shows how they're converted from the former to the latter.


| QNX System Log Level | DLT Log Level      |
|----------------------|--------------------|
| SLOG2\_SHUTDOWN      | DLT\_LOG\_FATAL    |
| SLOG2\_CRITICAL      | DLT\_LOG\_FATAL    |
| SLOG2\_ERROR         | DLT\_LOG\_ERROR    |
| SLOG2\_WARNING       | DLT\_LOG\_WARN     |
| SLOG2\_NOTICE        | DLT\_LOG\_INFO     |
| SLOG2\_INFO          | DLT\_LOG\_INFO     |
| SLOG2\_DEBUG1        | DLT\_LOG\_DEBUG    |
| SLOG2\_DEBUG2        | DLT\_LOG\_VERBOSE  |


### Context Mapping

The json file dlt-slog2ctxt.json can be used to map slogger names to dlt-contexts.

#### Example

Here is an example that sets a mapping from the "dumper" process to the DLT Context "DUMP", and the QNX Hypervisor to "QVM".
The description field is in the registration with libdlt.

```python
{
  "DUMP": {
    "name": "dumper",
    "description": "Writes core dump files to disk"
  },
  "SYSL": {
    "name": "syslogd",
    "description": ""
  }
}
```


### Runtime enable/disable slog2 adapter

The slog2 parser callback can be disabled and reenabled at runtime by using an injection.

| App ID | Context ID | Service ID | Data | Description            |
|--------|------------|------------|------|------------------------|
| QSYM   | QSYC       | 0x1000     | 00   | Disable slog2 adapter  |
| QSYM   | QSYC       | 0x1000     | 01   | Reenable slog2 adapter |

### Example:

```bash
dlt-control -e QNX -a QSYM -c QSYC -s 4096 -m "00" -u
dlt-control -e QNX -a QSYM -c QSYC -s 4096 -m "01" -u
```

Commit message:

[REFACTOR] Introduce QNX Single Thread Logging
1. Pthread APIs in QNX follow POSIX standard,
hence, to avoid undefined behaviors:
- Return value from each API call will be handled
- Manually allocate stack size for thread
- Reduce thread queue to one for logging only to
  avoid unlimited threads creation
- Use only 1 thread to handle logging, with
  stack size fixed to 12K (4K aligned)

2. Injection callback:
- Since only 1 thread is used, callback injection
  will now do infinity wait inside slogger2_callback

3. Handle properly dlt thread in normal exit:
- Add an atomic_bool for thread cancellation in
  normal main thread exit case.

4. Handle slog2_thread heap memory:
- slog2_thread is now allocated on HEAP, in case of
  failure or normal exit, free this HEAP allocated
  memory is required to prevent memory leak. During
  thread allocation on heap, the pointer stackaddr
  shall be round up to the nearest aligned memory
  address within 16K memory allocated.

Example: Heap 16K memory
   |-------------|------------------------|
0x1003    0x2000-aligned               MAX_MEM

MAX_MEM - 0x1003 = 16K
MAX_MEM - 0x2000 >= 12K

Signed-off-by: LUU QUANG MINH <Minh.LuuQuang@vn.bosch.com>

doc/dlt-qnx-system.md, after:

# dlt-qnx-system

QNX specific logging features of dlt are managed by the ```dlt-qnx-system``` process.
It currently contains the message forwarder from slogger2 to DLT.

The application listens to the system logs on QNX (slogger2) and sends them to
DLT. The prerequisite is that dlt-daemon is already started and running.
dlt-qnx-system loads by default the configuration file ```/etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf```.

> In order to catch all logs via slog2, the syslog needs to forward to slogger2 in [syslog.conf](http://www.qnx.com/developers/docs/7.0.0/index.html#com.qnx.doc.neutrino.utilities/topic/s/syslog.conf.html). [Deprecated]

To change the log level, use application ID and context ID set in configuration
file. ```DLT_INITIAL_LOG_LEVEL``` can be set on startup phase, or control
message can be sent from DLT client (e.g. dlt-control, DLT Viewer) at runtime.
Refer to [dlt_for_developers.md](dlt_for_developers.md) for more detail.

## Single Threaded Design (v2.18.10+)

> **Note:** Starting from version 2.18.10, `dlt-qnx-system` uses a single-threaded design for QNX logging management.

- The main process initializes and manages the logging thread for the slogger2 adapter.
- Signal handling is centralized in the main thread, ensuring clean shutdown and resource release.
- The slogger2 adapter thread is started with retries and monitored for successful startup.
- Runtime enable/disable of the slog2 adapter via injection is still supported.

The design shall improve reliability and simplifies the process structure, making it more suitable for embedded and high-load QNX systems.

### Architecture Comparison

**Original Design:**

<img src="images/dlt_qnx_system_original_design.png" alt="Original Design" width="700px" />

**New Single Threaded Design:**

<img src="images/dlt_qnx_system_new_design.png" alt="Original Design" width="700px" />

## Usage

```bash
dlt-qnx-system [-h] [-d] [-c FILENAME]
```

-h

:   Display a short help text.

-d

:   Daemonize. Detach from Terminal and run in background.

-c

:   Load an alternative configuration file. By default the configuration file
    */etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf* is loaded.


Non zero is returned in case of failure.


## Configuration

By default, the configuration is loaded from */etc/dlt-qnx-system.conf*. It
contains a few basic options:

- *ApplicationId*: this QNX system log forwarder will have this application ID
  and appear on DLT client. Default value is *QSYM*.
- *ApplicationContextID*: the context ID of the above application to appear on
  DLT client. Default value is *QSYC*.
- *QnxSlogger2Enable*: when the value is 1 (by default), the QNX slogger2
  adapter which sends slogger2 to DLT will be started. Otherwise if the value
  if 0, it won't be started.
- *QnxSlogger2ContextId*: this will set the context ID of the QNX slogger2
  adapter. Default value is *QSLA*.
- *QnxSlogger2UseOriginalTimestamp*: when the value is 1 (by default), slogger2
  event timestamps will be used as DLT timestamps.



## Slogger2 adapter

The slogger2 adapter that can be enabled in dlt-qnx-system attaches to slogger2 and converts the messages to dlt messages.


### Log level mapping

As the severity levels on QNX system log are different from DLT Log Level, the below table shows how they're converted from the former to the latter.


| QNX System Log Level | DLT Log Level      |
|----------------------|--------------------|
| SLOG2\_SHUTDOWN      | DLT\_LOG\_FATAL    |
| SLOG2\_CRITICAL      | DLT\_LOG\_FATAL    |
| SLOG2\_ERROR         | DLT\_LOG\_ERROR    |
| SLOG2\_WARNING       | DLT\_LOG\_WARN     |
| SLOG2\_NOTICE        | DLT\_LOG\_INFO     |
| SLOG2\_INFO          | DLT\_LOG\_INFO     |
| SLOG2\_DEBUG1        | DLT\_LOG\_DEBUG    |
| SLOG2\_DEBUG2        | DLT\_LOG\_VERBOSE  |


### Context Mapping

The json file dlt-slog2ctxt.json can be used to map slogger names to dlt-contexts.

#### Example

Here is an example that sets a mapping from the "dumper" process to the DLT Context "DUMP", and the QNX Hypervisor to "QVM".
The description field is in the registration with libdlt.

```python
{
  "DUMP": {
    "name": "dumper",
    "description": "Writes core dump files to disk"
  },
  "SYSL": {
    "name": "syslogd",
    "description": ""
  }
}
```

### Runtime enable/disable slog2 adapter

The slog2 parser callback can be disabled and reenabled at runtime by using an injection.

| App ID | Context ID | Service ID | Data | Description            |
|--------|------------|------------|------|------------------------|
| QSYM   | QSYC       | 0x1000     | 00   | Disable slog2 adapter  |
| QSYM   | QSYC       | 0x1000     | 01   | Reenable slog2 adapter |

### Example:

```bash
dlt-control -e QNX -a QSYM -c QSYC -s 4096 -m "00" -u
dlt-control -e QNX -a QSYM -c QSYC -s 4096 -m "01" -u
```
