.TH dlt.conf 5  "March 2, 2012" "version 2.5.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dlt.conf \- DLT daemon configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The DLT daemon is the central place where logs and traces are gathered
from different applications, stored temporarily or permanently and
transferred to a DLT client application, which can run directly on the
GENIVI system or more likely on a external tester device.
.PP
The configuration file dlt.conf allows to configure the different
runtime behaviour of the dlt-daemon. The configuration file is loaded
during startup of dlt-daemon.
.PP
dlt-daemon loads by default the configuration file /etc/dlt.conf. An
alternative configuration file can be loaded with the option \-c.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B Verbose
If set to 1 DLT daemon is started in dubug mode, so that all internal debug
information is printed out on the console.
.IP
Default: 0
.TP
.B Daemonize
If set to 1 DLT daemon is started in background as daemon. This option
is only needed in System V init systems. In systemd based startup
systems the daemon is started by spawning own process.
.IP
Default: 0
.TP
.B SendSerialHeader
If set to 1 DLT daemon sends each DLT message to the client with
prepanding the serial header "DLS0x01".
.IP
Default: 0
.TP
.B SendContextRegistration
If set to 1 each context which is registered from an application in the
DLT daemon generates a message to inform the DLT client about the new
context.
.IP
Default: 0
.TP
.B SendMessageTime
If set to 1 DLt daemon sends each second a DLT control message to the
client with the current timestamp from the system.
.IP
Default: 0
.TP
.B ECUId
This value sets the ECU Id, which is sent with each DLT message.
.IP
Default: ECU1
.TP
.B SharedMemorySize
This value sets the size of the shared memory, which is used to exchange
DLT messages between applications and daemon. This value is defined in
bytes. If this value is changed the system must be rebooted to take
effect.
.IP
Default: 100000
.TP
.B PersistanceStoragePath
This is the directory path, where the DLT daemon stores its runtime
configuration. Runtime configuration includes stored log levels, trace
status and changed logging mode. 
.IP
Default: /tmp
.SH OFFLINE TRACE OPTIONS
.TP
.B OfflineTraceDirectory
If this option is set, offline trace is enabled. This value sets the
directory path to the offline trace memory. The directory must already
exist.
.IP
Default: Offline tracing is disabled.
.TP
.B OfflineTraceFileSize
This value defines the max size of a offline trace file, if offline trace
is enabled. This value is defined in bytes. If the files size of the
current used log file is exceeded, a new log file is created. 
.IP
Default: 1000000
.TP
.B OfflineTraceMaxSize
This value defines the max offline Trace memory size, if offline trace
is enabled. This value is defined in bytes. If the overall offline trace
size is excedded, the oldest log files are deleted, until a new trace
file fits the overall offline trace max size.
.IP
Default: 4000000
.SH LOCAL CONSOLE OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
.B PrintASCII
Prints each received DLT message from the application in ASCII to the
local console.
This option should only be anabled for debugging purpose.
.IP
Default: Function is disabled
.TP
.B PrintHex
Prints each received DLT message from the application in ASCII to the
local console. The payload is printed in Hex.
This option should only be anabled for debugging purpose.
.IP
Default: Function is disabled
.TP
.B PrintHeadersOnly
Prints each received DLT message from the application in ASCII to the
local console. Only the header is printed.
This option should only be anabled for debugging purpose.
.IP
Default: Function is disabled
.SH SERIAL CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
.B RS232DeviceName
If this value is set to a serial device name, e.g. /dev/ttyS0, a serial
port is used for logging to a client. 
.IP
Default: Serial port for logging is disabled
.TP
.B RS232Baudrate
The used serial baud rate, if serial loggin is enabled. The
RS232DeviceName must be set to enable serial logging.
.IP
Default: 115200
.TP
.B RS232SyncSerialHeader
If serial logging is enabled, each received DLT message is checked to
contain a serial header. If the DLT message contains no serial header,
the message is ignored.
.IP
Default: Function is disabled
.SH TCP CLIENT OPTIONS
.TP
.B TCPSyncSerialHeader
Each received DLT message on a TCP connection is checked to contain a
serial header. If the DLT message contains no serial header, the message
is ignored.
.IP
Default:
.SH AUTHOR
Alexander Wenzel (alexander.aw.wenzel (at) bmw.de)
.SH SEE ALSO
dlt(1)
